Saraniah Aston: I like it.
Gwenevere Abriel: I like it. Yeah, used to be my color.
Saraniah Aston: Really
Gwenevere Abriel: Well blonde hair, blue eyes. It looks good.
Saraniah Aston: Yes, it does. The contrast
Gwenevere Abriel: Ran out of white things to where it's all dirty.
Saraniah Aston: Don't buy white
Saraniah Aston: Because there's no chance it'll survive past
Gwenevere Abriel: Journey and you guys can't see I have stains all over my clothes. You guys can't tell, it's fantastic guys can tell I can tell from one to three times all stinky.
Gwenevere Abriel: Straight
Saraniah Aston: Know you always look very put together.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, thank you so much.
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's get you in here. We'll look at you, you're like not immediate severe distress.
Saraniah Aston: Now I'm not
Saraniah Aston: I have had a it's been really rough and
Saraniah Aston: I have had some really rough days.
Saraniah Aston: But I just keep trying to write things down.
Saraniah Aston: To just remind myself of who I am and what my goals are.
Saraniah Aston: And
Saraniah Aston: And one of the things that I wrote down that's really important to me is
Saraniah Aston: How to control my anger. It's affecting my life greatly, and I do not need it.
Saraniah Aston: Like I have all this anger.
Saraniah Aston: Towards my father. And then my mother, of course.
Saraniah Aston: And then, well, my brother.
Saraniah Aston: My family, basically. And it's hard.
Gwenevere Abriel: So can I check in a little bit on when you say, I don't need it, I get it. I got a little scared because your brother is a scary, dude.
Gwenevere Abriel: And like I think you do need to be afraid of him and and so that anger might keep that distance
Gwenevere Abriel: That if it's not there, he might go in like expecting your love and kindness and compassion will mean that he will be loving and kind and then everybody's going to get hurt. So I guess I don't want to throw out all the anger member who was talking about channeling it harnessing it
Saraniah Aston: I guess. Yeah. That's what I'm talking about more of is
Saraniah Aston: I don't know if not getting rid of it then putting it to some better use
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, cool.
Saraniah Aston: Because it
Saraniah Aston: Is in me.
Saraniah Aston: And
Saraniah Aston: What I don't need, is it to completely like dictate my life.
Gwenevere Abriel: Amen. I gotcha. Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: So,
Gwenevere Abriel: If anger was sort of that energy that mobilize it so in my world. I think about what mobilizes and what it mobilizes I kind of pull those two apart. And I'm like, Okay, well, anger, I like because it mobilizes I get pissed off enough, then I'm going to speak.
Gwenevere Abriel: Truth.
Gwenevere Abriel: If I'm not to anger like
Gwenevere Abriel: I really want to pick this battle friend.
Saraniah Aston: Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: There are some that are so unacceptable that, then it's going to motivate me and I'm going to speak my mind. So I'm grateful to it in that way and it mobilizes action.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then there's the the immobilized which is more like the freeze and that can be the depression. SO IF YOU HAVE BEEN SWINGING between
Gwenevere Abriel: Rage
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, and then the depression.
Gwenevere Abriel: Then maybe finding another way in the middle is our goal. Can we go back to some of the things that we did because we had just sort of began this this visual piece. Um, did you add any more to that art that you had done.
No.
Saraniah Aston: That was a rough day
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. So not that we're not in that day.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm wonder if we could look at it again.
Gwenevere Abriel: With neutral or less than sort of emotional eyes, wondering if we could look at it. Is it around.
Saraniah Aston: Trying to find it.
Saraniah Aston: Oh,
Saraniah Aston: Look,
Gwenevere Abriel: At now and see just just kind of assess it yourself from an emotional distance, it's not quite as pressing for some time that happened from it and now
Saraniah Aston: Well, there's a lot of anger in that box. Okay.
Saraniah Aston: And my intention is goodness
Saraniah Aston: helping other people
Saraniah Aston: But then on the other side. It's like I need to help me to
Saraniah Aston: Know if I can help many people. When I need help.
Gwenevere Abriel: So maybe for you. It's
Gwenevere Abriel: Investing
Gwenevere Abriel: More in the self for a little bit.
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe, making sure that you're feeling well rested well fed that you're sort of feeding that spiritual connection that you're doing the self care should be not recovery mindset, right, you're, you're keeping appointments to okay I'm taking care of this body.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then I can care for others. I can be helpful.
Saraniah Aston: Mm hmm. Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well then let's start with those basics. Let's talk about how many hours of sleep, would you say over the last five days you've had, let's say,
Saraniah Aston: Three to four hours a night.
Huh.
Gwenevere Abriel: Not outstanding.
Saraniah Aston: Ask them, I asked the doctor for docs that pin, but I don't think he I
Saraniah Aston: Don't think he sent it in
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm going to go quickly messaged him on that because that is probably just a he forgot
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, I'm good. I can do, I can see what's today Tuesday I think he'll get my message pretty quickly. Are you do you need buprenorphine to before I send
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, I'm just gonna put that before I forget, so it's already on its way. We may hear back from an melted session.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, thank you for God.
Saraniah Aston: God that he actually did and
Saraniah Aston: The pharmacy just didn't know yet because I, my mother wouldn't picked up my medication for me yesterday.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm just
Gwenevere Abriel: Asking them, did you, I'll just ask them.
Gwenevere Abriel: Did you order her dogs.
Gwenevere Abriel: To have an E at the end of pain like that.
Saraniah Aston: I don't think so. No.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just pin would be non let's give that a try. I think you're right. All the he's selling did you order her BA BA BA BA BA. Okay, great. Let's see what he says, I'm okay so right that's about the sleep right now. It's about three hours and
Gwenevere Abriel: Where's my my note. What about nutrition, are you feeding this body things that it knows, right, it can use as fuel or like how are you eating.
Saraniah Aston: Um,
Saraniah Aston: Well, I eat very healthy food. It's just, I'm
Saraniah Aston: right at this moment, like the past few days. I don't think I've been eating enough
Saraniah Aston: You know, maybe like once a day.
Saraniah Aston: And then picking here in there like on all
Saraniah Aston: Suddenly,
Saraniah Aston: But I'm on the keto diet to it's very restrictive.
Saraniah Aston: Some people think it's healthy. Some people think it's not
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't have an opinion about it. I just my only contribution would be
Gwenevere Abriel: It, good, bad, maybe it's more like is this adaptive for you is this diet is this keto diet working for you right now, doesn't mean it won't work.
Gwenevere Abriel: Back then, or in a month from now. Is it working for easy giving you the energy and the fuel, so that if you do get sick you heal.
Gwenevere Abriel: If you need to be processing a cycle lot of big psychological piece that it's not Depleting your nutrition that you need to be processing a difficult sort of emotion. Is it working for you.
Saraniah Aston: I think so, but I'm, I'm going to be making a doctor appointment with my doctor my family care doctor just to make sure you get checked out because I did dive into it rather abruptly and hardcore when I found out that I was diabetic.
Gwenevere Abriel: Have you lost some weight. Are you noticed your clothes are looser
Saraniah Aston: I've gone down five sizes.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, so I'm noticing in your face. I just, I'm seeing now and just noticing sometimes I'm wrong, just wrong wrong wrong.
Gwenevere Abriel: It might be just the angle, but it does look like in here. There's a bit like almost like
Gwenevere Abriel: Some change.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you may not because you see it incrementally each day, but I have like a few days that pastor. I don't see you so I might be able to catch a change
Saraniah Aston: Like every week. Yeah.
Yeah.
Saraniah Aston: Oh, awesome.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well,
Gwenevere Abriel: But it can mean
Gwenevere Abriel: Because mic yeah yeah yeah but but but
Saraniah Aston: I don't want to be malnourished.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. Um, and, again, because it's
Saraniah Aston: So I take vitamins on the side, I take my beast 12 I take a multivitamin.
Saraniah Aston: I drink collagen drinks and I take biotech
Saraniah Aston: Which is awesome. By the way, if you want your nails to grow really fast bio Tim, I tried that and your hair.
Saraniah Aston: Your hair will go faster. Oh.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes, my hair already grows fast, but all I would take it. I would get it longer by attend and what was the other thing, right. We went vitamin
Saraniah Aston: I take a B 12 vitamin
Gwenevere Abriel: I got that one.
Saraniah Aston: Um, and then I take a woman's once a day, vitamin. I'm not exactly sure what's in it.
Saraniah Aston: A bunch of different like vitamin E, just all the essential vitamins.
Saraniah Aston: And collagen sometimes
Saraniah Aston: I drink collagen drinks.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right. Um, so we've got that and you're going to go check it out with your primary care and see if the physician says yeah you're healthy. Keep it up.
Saraniah Aston: And the right or maybe you need to make some changes. Maybe we need to eat more meat out or know. We'll see. I mean, eating a lot of fish so
All right.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's see. What about
Gwenevere Abriel: We sleep we eat. What about exercise. Do you do I ran one time I was texting. You're like, oh, I'm almost home. I thought maybe you'd been walking
Gwenevere Abriel: How much exercise for for the purpose of really making sure because we're not supposed to be these creatures that are sleeping or sitting all day we're supposed to be like in motion here and there. How much exercise. Get a day.
Saraniah Aston: Honestly lately I've been getting my exercise. Not quite the way I want to, which is by walking. Walking around town power walking and stuff like that.
Saraniah Aston: And then doing some, like, sit ups and some leg workouts and stuff like that. But doing as just been taking out my anxiety and my anger on cleaning
Saraniah Aston: Clean like with a fury, like a madwoman and I get full on workout. Okay.
All right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Saraniah Aston: I crank the music up
Saraniah Aston: Yeah. My mom has a broom everybody out of my way.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you're, you're, you did something you decided last time we met. He said, You know what, I need to get my journal out and need to hold on to this.
Gwenevere Abriel: And you have an experience in session with me and you liked it, you really liked you were, I think you got a glimpse to yourself and you wanted to hold on to it.
Gwenevere Abriel: And, you know,
Gwenevere Abriel: The way to do that would be I gotta write it. I think you were saying every day. I need to keep writing in here.
Gwenevere Abriel: And it sounds like it's working.
Saraniah Aston: Yeah, I think it is. I, I, well my problem is is that I'm extremely unorganized right now, so I don't have one book that's a journal
Saraniah Aston: I have them all over the place. Um, but yeah, I am writing
Saraniah Aston: Pretty much daily, whether it be about life or whatever I need to write down. I just write it
Saraniah Aston: I wrote
Saraniah Aston: World on hold, not, not a bad thing for me, necessarily, Travis moving to Silver City.
Saraniah Aston: Equals anxiety and paranoia, he sleeps on couch. So I can't visit for a night. I can tell that he is really stressing my mother out big time. Now she really has no
Saraniah Aston: Room for me.
Gwenevere Abriel: I remember that actually you it was that there's no room for me part that really hit hard
Saraniah Aston: There's a Tuesday, April seven, that must be right after retards I'm assuming
Saraniah Aston: I truly do not want to cause worry in the minds of people who love me in this world. I do not mean to be dramatic.
Saraniah Aston: Surely, one could say that there was a time when I was without a doubt, seeking attention. I think I wanted to really be seen. Ever since I was a tiny tot I was a very entertaining, little girl.
Saraniah Aston: toasters, things like that, that I'm writing down every day.
Saraniah Aston: You know until I get into it until I really start spilling pages.
Gwenevere Abriel: So if we just look at somehow this has
Gwenevere Abriel: Helped us therapists have this cool word lability right it's this, it's the roller coaster of an effect. Its highs and lows. It's a label it goes through like this.
Gwenevere Abriel: If it is in any way helped that sort of seeing yourself on the page. Haven't bounced back at you right. This is my truth. It's right here.
Gwenevere Abriel: What it does if it's only that it gives you this dual awareness that I am not this feeling, I can write
Gwenevere Abriel: I will not kill me. I can write it, even if it just us that you're having this dual awareness is a powerful intervention. And if that is working. Let's keep doing it.
Saraniah Aston: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Absolutely. I love it because what that reinforces is
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not this moment.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not just this moment.
Gwenevere Abriel: I can look upon myself and be the writer of what it sees you can be of dual awareness. That's fantastic. I don't know if you remember if when there's been moments where you feel as if this horror, this anger this sorrow is all there is.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, that one.
Gwenevere Abriel: So what you just did with the journaling, although you may just say, oh, well, it's journaling and what's the big fuss.
Gwenevere Abriel: There's really cool things happening in the mind when you're doing that. So I am a big fan.
Saraniah Aston: Like what, like you just realizing things as you write or
Saraniah Aston: Well, going back and reflecting
Gwenevere Abriel: So notice how I just told you, it gives you dual awareness.
Gwenevere Abriel: Ready, which means you're both feeling it in the moment. And you can also be the observer of it which means that you could even give it and we can we can talk about this as as a as a as a technique. Also, I've been calling this the dual awareness countdown.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's like this man like a 9596 right, this is awful. That's objective unit of distress that thing that I asked you guys to do like that's really number
Gwenevere Abriel: But this is it.
Gwenevere Abriel: And use it for yourself like holy
Gwenevere Abriel: I meant like 98 know this is awful. Okay, I'm gonna breathe and I'm gonna watch the number
Gwenevere Abriel: I watch it go down, look at that. It just went down by 95 after my first breath you literally keep watching.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, look at that. I hit just hit 93
Gwenevere Abriel: It's like 85 and you're literally watching it go down as you're breathing. That's an it, that would be similar to you, writing it out.
Gwenevere Abriel: In
Gwenevere Abriel: The phenomenon of dual awareness, you are not just
That up
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah yeah it does work. If you decide for it not to and you fight the number
Gwenevere Abriel: If you say no, then of course it won't work. But if you decide, yes. I want this to work, and indeed you watch it and I do this a lot with kids.
Gwenevere Abriel: You know, they get a bloody me kids are always falling, let's say, Oh, how does that feel what's awful. It's awful. Well, I wonder how long it's going to feel awful.
Gwenevere Abriel: blood coming out in there and let's look at it. Who is it going to keep bleeding that much. Let's count.
Gwenevere Abriel: How much pain is it now. What number is that we write we give it that number again there's that number who How dare you give it a number of this pain. Yeah, we can we even if
Gwenevere Abriel: We give it a number is still there. Is it down to four. Is it good worse sipping getting worse and they're just looking at me like, Huh, what's she doing because the North
Gwenevere Abriel: And the normal reaction right is all baby. And then of course the crime continues.
Gwenevere Abriel: But this time is different. It's being an observer of yourself have this witness know that you're going to be okay. By asking these kinds of questions and just sort of observing it
Gwenevere Abriel: It gets the crime stops the pain basically disappears because we're looking at it together. We're saying I wonder how it will last. We're not running away from it. We're not panic and freaking out, we're just really getting to know it.
Saraniah Aston: Whoa.
Gwenevere Abriel: So that's what this is on the inside is is saying, hmm, not going to run away. I'm not going to numb it going to feel it. Let me give it a number
Hmm.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's a lot longer than I thought it would be. Maybe I'm not as in distress as I thought. And I'm actually, if I can think about it number and I can do more than just feel this summer. Oh, I can also think
Gwenevere Abriel: And I remembered I also remember the guy was talking about this number system countdown business. So I'm also thinking that's a different part of the brain.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm not just hijacked by my limbic system. What else can I think about whoo. I could think about my goal. And I just remembered it. So it's not just static it leads to other things that have worked for you that can work for you again. Oh, yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: This moment will pass. I have had these before, and I need to focus on my goal. How do I do it. I'm gonna go get that journal
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm going to draw this feeling I'm going to draw what it feels like. Maybe I'll draw what it feels like an 85. I'm going to go over here and draw it looks like it's 75. Oh, it's like it's 60
Gwenevere Abriel: I don't want to do this anymore. I want to go do something else. You know it, it can be that quick.
Gwenevere Abriel: And seem silly like why but
Saraniah Aston: No, it's pretty awesome to me.
Gwenevere Abriel: If it works, let's do it.
Saraniah Aston: Who's the main skill sets, you've got there.
Gwenevere Abriel: Is it. But what I'm learning from is you you're teaching me
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, we want to pay attention to what is working. Don't want to take something away when I sort of see what what has kept you alive. What has helped
Gwenevere Abriel: get you where you are gets you the success that you have. And let's let's do the things that worked and things I can add, I definitely am going to definitely give you everything I've got
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's go over to this thing where you started today with
Gwenevere Abriel: This anger. How did you say
Saraniah Aston: Structured with my mother's suggestion that I bring it up when I talk to you next
Saraniah Aston: Because I told her that I
Saraniah Aston: Told her mom. I'm so much anger towards you.
Yeah.
Saraniah Aston: And she's like, well, maybe you need to work out that that with your therapist.
Gwenevere Abriel: So why don't we start there. How did that feel, literally, to have someone say work it out with your therapist, but the anger is directed to her.
Saraniah Aston: It's like I'm being shoved under a rug. It's like being shut up.
Saraniah Aston: It's like being blatantly ignored and that happening in your face. Um, it's like being told. I'm going to go ahead and take that information that you just gave me and completely ignore it now.
Yeah.
Saraniah Aston: You'll deal with it somehow. You'll, you'll do it.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's the main one.
Gwenevere Abriel: Notice it's work it out.
Gwenevere Abriel: Therapist you you for a while we're working it out, maybe with with drugs.
Gwenevere Abriel: Working out with. Maybe it was self injury pretty toxic relationships. But no matter what. Notice the distance. Fine. Mom, it's work it out.
Gwenevere Abriel: But she didn't engage in was
Gwenevere Abriel: What's making you angry.
Saraniah Aston: Exactly. She avoids that she doesn't want to know.
Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: This is where the big piece for you and you say, I want to control and I don't know if it's you.
Gwenevere Abriel: If it feels like it's more about your mother.
Gwenevere Abriel: Then they'll be some ambivalence, and the work won't be as rich
Gwenevere Abriel: You've mentioned before, these concepts of of anger your favorite, but they've got a you've got they've got to be yours now because your mom said work it out with your therapist, you've got to really own
Saraniah Aston: The work, you and I, oh, I do. I mean, she's right. She was right, working with us. She's right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah.
Saraniah Aston: I mean, what else am I gonna do. I mean,
Saraniah Aston: I've had anger issues for a very long time.
Gwenevere Abriel: Oh, where they anchor issues are with those a solution to something that your mother and you were doing well it can we stop giving anger such a bad rap.
Saraniah Aston: I know right.
Gwenevere Abriel: I I'm like what would have happened to force our Nia without that anger. I don't know.
Gwenevere Abriel: I mean, would you have gone insane maybe
Gwenevere Abriel: Cold, so I don't know that we wanted this it so hard.
Saraniah Aston: Right.
Saraniah Aston: I don't actually I think anger is the gift. Um,
Saraniah Aston: But when it controls your life and ruins your family and all that stuff.
Saraniah Aston: And again, I need to stop blaming myself because I am not ruining my family.
Gwenevere Abriel: You're not so let's introduce something now you've got this real you notice how you were able to just now see perspective. He just went in came back out. Wait a minute. It's not me. I can't, I can't do that. It's not. Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Notice that that's that's dual awareness, you're getting you're getting it. That's all we ever do. Whoo. This feels awful. This feels awful. Is this the only perspective I lift my head up.
Gwenevere Abriel: No, this is not the only reality. I need to get out of this single respectable do some journaling, I'll ask somebody, how they're doing. How do you see me. We can get out of this. This is the only experience when I put that aside for just a second. I want to talk to you about something.
Gwenevere Abriel: These the concept and it's going to feel a little abrupt but the concept of gaslighting
Gwenevere Abriel: How foreign or familiar are you with that.
Saraniah Aston: Okay, I still don't understand what gaslighting actually means.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, there we go. I'm trying to find out. I have a lot of clients that have one in their life, and it's not a clinical term but I came across it within the last few years and I'm in love with it.
Saraniah Aston: Because they've been heard about it.
Gwenevere Abriel: A lot. Yeah, it's, it's, I love this thing. And I have one video where this woman talks and I'd love to show it to you.
Saraniah Aston: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: If I may, and and if you say, oh my goodness this is my mom, then we're on to something. If you're like,
Gwenevere Abriel: Then we'll roll it out.
Saraniah Aston: Okay, okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: I have a suspicion.
Gwenevere Abriel: That you have been as a, as a young girl as as probably a baby even I'm imagining that you have grown up in
Gwenevere Abriel: In Validating Environment meaning non validating meaning not validated, which means. Hey, isn't this pretty aren't I pretty on I talented, look at me, and someone somehow along the way, said, yeah, no.
Gwenevere Abriel: I DON'T HAVE TIME FOR YOU GO, GO AWAY. Something like that. Your, your reality, not being met with someone saying, Oh my gosh, look at those photos look at those dance moves.
Gwenevere Abriel: That's fantastic. So, and it's not just the dancing. It's
Gwenevere Abriel: My value having insight. My, my communication me as a parent me as a student me as a sexual being as as a young person. Great. I mean, there's a bajillion of them, right. And so my question is I'm trying to see if you grew up in that environment.
Gwenevere Abriel: So let's take a look at this woman and just see what comes up for you, like, oh yeah I I relate to this gal, or no, not so much. It's, I gotta remember if it's 14 minutes 11 minutes, not too sure.
Gwenevere Abriel: Hold on, I gotta focus here with my doing I'm saying bookmark. It's going to show all and then I'm going to type in this word.
Gwenevere Abriel: There it is beautiful and I'm gonna share my screen.
Gwenevere Abriel: There she is. She speaks very slowly. Okay.
Saraniah Aston: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: There we go.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm going to skip all the TED Talk stuff.
Saraniah Aston: Talks.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, we're gonna skip
Gwenevere Abriel: Right now, the world is experiencing what I experienced every day as a child.
Gwenevere Abriel: There is chaos, there is confusion.
Gwenevere Abriel: Everything is upside down.
Gwenevere Abriel: Reality is being cancelled and nothing means anything
Gwenevere Abriel: From gaslighting refers to when someone manipulates you into questioning your own sanity.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's a term we are hearing a lot of right now.
Gwenevere Abriel: And it's a term. I'm very familiar with.
Gwenevere Abriel: People are perhaps confused with how to manage and to cope with the situation. And that's where I can help.
Gwenevere Abriel: When I was in my mid 30s. I had a meeting with my editor and it was my first major journalism assignment for the Sunday Times magazine.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'd gone to meet him for drink and I was feeling hopeful. I was feeling like things might work out.
Gwenevere Abriel: And as I was leaving another writer arrived.
Gwenevere Abriel: This writer recognized me from when I was a child, and he said, Are you so and so's daughter and I replied, Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: And hit been against one of my mother's dinner parties.
Gwenevere Abriel: After I left this meeting my editor told me
Gwenevere Abriel: That he had said hi I always wondered how that little girl would survive. I had thought her only chances are suicide or murder.
Gwenevere Abriel: When you told me this line. I felt validation, because here was this person who had actually witnessed what I knew to be true and it confirmed what I knew
Gwenevere Abriel: So he had said two options suicide or murder. Why would you say that. And what does this have to do with gaslighting
Gwenevere Abriel: I grew up in an environment that from the outside, seemed privileged an enviable my mother was a very glamorous poet and an artist, and there were always very interesting people around.
Gwenevere Abriel: Was a bohemian world.
Gwenevere Abriel: She loved entertaining and there would be raucous parties on weeknights I would be in my bed trying to go to sleep, and I would be woken up with drunken laughter noise outside the bedroom.
Gwenevere Abriel: And sometimes these people would come into my room to escape from the crowd and they would sit and they would smoke and they would use the bathroom.
Gwenevere Abriel: And other times I would get up in my nightgown and open the door and shout desperately. Please, can people be quiet. It's a school night I have to go to sleep. I have to get up tomorrow.
Gwenevere Abriel: My mother would reply Ariel. Come join the party or she would say after the belly dancer. Everyone will go home.
Gwenevere Abriel: It was total bombardment.
Gwenevere Abriel: So the following morning, what would happen is I would confront her about the situation and it was as though this disruption had never happened.
Gwenevere Abriel: What I thought had happened, I was being told has not happened. That's the key piece, what
Gwenevere Abriel: I was being told did not happen.
Saraniah Aston: That
Gwenevere Abriel: The escalating and that I was making a big deal out of nothing.
Gwenevere Abriel: And finally confronted her with the facts. They were bad in a way
Gwenevere Abriel: I was sprayed with words of adoration and words of content you're stupid idiot, and I wish you had never been born when I confronted her about having said this to me. I was told I was making it up and that it was a lie.
Gwenevere Abriel: So it wasn't just that my reality was cancelled, but my perceptions of reality we're overwritten.
Gwenevere Abriel: And one of the most insidious things about gaslighting is the denial of reality.
Gwenevere Abriel: being denied what you have seen with your own eyes, and you know to be true being denied an experience that you have had and you know is real.
Gwenevere Abriel: For me via ratio of the abuse was worse than the abuse.
Gwenevere Abriel: So it can make you crazy, but you are not crazy.
Gwenevere Abriel: I developed for strategies writing
Gwenevere Abriel: Even know they were strategies to put them up. So in these uncertain times. I'm going to share them with you and maybe they can help you to
Gwenevere Abriel: Number one is to remain defiant
Gwenevere Abriel: When I was a little girl. I wrote a story about running away from home.
Gwenevere Abriel: And when my mother saw the story, she said.
Gwenevere Abriel: It wasn't true, and demanded I change it and I didn't change it.
Gwenevere Abriel: I actually yelled out, I am not changing my story. I'm not
Gwenevere Abriel: This defiance was key because I was trusting my version of reality and not allowing it to be altered on demand.
Gwenevere Abriel: This anger protected me. I knew what I knew and it couldn't be erased.
Gwenevere Abriel: So the person gaslighting you will often try to bully you
Gwenevere Abriel: But being defiant is something that does not make you difficult it's being resilient.
Gwenevere Abriel: Now recognize that you will never get accountability.
Gwenevere Abriel: Will never select go of expecting accountability. That's going to be the second piece. She does put them up on our screen your head was down and see the first one, she will list them, but it's letting though. Right. I think my late 20s, I tried to recognize
Gwenevere Abriel: There will never be
Gwenevere Abriel: Her
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, another
Gwenevere Abriel: BROTHER, FATHER anyone. This is the piece there will never it's the never there will never be accountability.
Gwenevere Abriel: Radically accepting
Gwenevere Abriel: I know
Gwenevere Abriel: I know I'm here for you. And we can we can grieve together. But let me tell you something to freedom that comes to vitality on the other side. I'm telling you, it's gonna be okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: With really accepting
Never
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: The truth about what happened in my childhood I was sitting with my mother in a Japanese restaurant and I said the words, child abuse, for the first time out loud.
Gwenevere Abriel: playfully so she didn't feel like it was an attack on her and immediately her response was, what about mommy of use, nobody ever talks about that.
Gwenevere Abriel: So what I learned in that moment was that she would never be able to take accountability for her actions, she would never get it. She would never say, Oh, you're right. You have a point
Gwenevere Abriel: And that acknowledgement was not in the cards.
Gwenevere Abriel: Asserting myself was not just useful, but it was harmful.
Gwenevere Abriel: Because the person gaslighting you did you hear that
Saraniah Aston: Mm hmm.
Saraniah Aston: heartedness
Gwenevere Abriel: Is not just not helpful, it's harmful where normally a therapist, etc. You're going to hear me say self advocacy assertive, a sort of sort of
Gwenevere Abriel: Don't waste your time.
Saraniah Aston: Yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: Will never be able to respond to logic or reason. And so if you think that you can apply logic and reason you're going to feel let down
Gwenevere Abriel: With this recognition. You are no longer powerless.
Gwenevere Abriel: Letting go of the wish for it to be different. This is a big one.
Gwenevere Abriel: For me, because the wish for to get different is very powerful.
Gwenevere Abriel: It inoculates you to the tumult
Gwenevere Abriel: It allows you to continue to believe that logic and reason will prevail. Well,
Gwenevere Abriel: And after a particularly bad episode. My mother would reassure me that it would never happen again.
Gwenevere Abriel: It would happen again.
Gwenevere Abriel: Promises were broken. And I realized that I could not rely on her work.
Saraniah Aston: With gaslighting
Gwenevere Abriel: The person gaslighting you makes you feel as though the ground is always shifting beneath your feet and that you have no center of gravity.
Gwenevere Abriel: You want things to make sense, but they won't
Gwenevere Abriel: Engaging with someone who has gaslighting you means you will never feel hurt. So what's the solution you stop engaging and you put yourself first.
Gwenevere Abriel: Number four, would be to develop a healthy detachment. I had to develop coping mechanisms. When I was a child.
Gwenevere Abriel: The back and forth and the push and pull of affection was emotional whiplash. You're wonderful you're horrible. I love you, I hate you. I had to protect myself by believing that nothing meant anything
Gwenevere Abriel: So if you can't invest in anything. The other person says what happens. Well, when you grow up, there's a price for me.
Gwenevere Abriel: What had been adaptive as a child became maladaptive as an adult. So trusting was very difficult. I was always needing verification. I became vigilant about clarity.
Gwenevere Abriel: There was no room for misunderstanding and there was no margin for error.
Gwenevere Abriel: Somebody asked me once, what are you looking for in a relationship, and I replied certainty.
Gwenevere Abriel: I needed certainty in an uncertain world.
Gwenevere Abriel: But we live in an uncertain world.
Gwenevere Abriel: And so there has to be a way to find balance.
Gwenevere Abriel: detaching from gaslighting does not mean total detachment.
Gwenevere Abriel: It means distinguishing between the world of the gas lighter and the real world.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you can let people have their alternative facts, you'll stick to reality.
Gwenevere Abriel: Distinguishing between gas lighter
Gwenevere Abriel: Perspective, she gets to have her altered reality. You get to pay attention to how your body feels that years the words you just heard you get to pay attention to your emotional reaction you get to have that distinguished you're developing a healthy detachment. Let's keep listening.
Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: So if the only options for me were suicide or murder. How did I survive well there was actually a third option writing it down.
Gwenevere Abriel: This was my way of making sense of the chaos by organizing it on the page.
Gwenevere Abriel: This happened. This was real.
Gwenevere Abriel: Whether the writing was published or not it was something that had to be written
Gwenevere Abriel: To say what needed to be said to validate my reality.
Gwenevere Abriel: Even if it was disavowed which it was
Gwenevere Abriel: It was testimony.
Gwenevere Abriel: Ironically, it was my mother, who passed on to me the tools that I needed in order to survive because she always championed freedom of speech through writing
Gwenevere Abriel: And by telling my story.
Gwenevere Abriel: It was and continues to be an act of redemption.
Gwenevere Abriel: Thank you.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so yeah. What do we think
Saraniah Aston: Know what I'm writing
Saraniah Aston: Yeah, that pretty much describes
Saraniah Aston: Yeah, my mom. Definitely.
Saraniah Aston: Makes you feel as though the ground beneath you, is always shifting
Saraniah Aston: I wrote down how she wrote. We live in an uncertain world and validate your own reality.
Saraniah Aston: And develop healthy detachment distinguishing between gas lighters, and my perspective.
Saraniah Aston: And then basically gaslighting when someone manipulates you to question your own sanity.
Gwenevere Abriel: It. Correct. What's happening is they're questioning the question your they negate your own reality.
Gwenevere Abriel: So you might say, this happened yesterday and all you're doing is breaking down the facts. I went to the kitchen. You said shut it. No, I never said that.
Gwenevere Abriel: Like it would you I was there. And so it's that. And then it's also about feelings. I'm hurt. I'm angry. Oh no, you're not stopping. You're being ridiculous. Anyway, let's focus on dinner.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's both. It's not only what you heard saw felt with your physical body. You were there witnessing it with your eyeballs in your ears. It's also
Gwenevere Abriel: Completely invalidate your emotional experience and saying, You're being ridiculous. And so it's so if you so all you have all of those notes. Now, clean it nice and tight and write these four things. Number one, three main defiance defiant
Gwenevere Abriel: Gets its own page number one remain defiant
Gwenevere Abriel: Anger protected you
Gwenevere Abriel: And can protect you. Number two.
Gwenevere Abriel: She will never
Gwenevere Abriel: Be accountable.
Gwenevere Abriel: Number three.
Gwenevere Abriel: harsh reality. I know.
Gwenevere Abriel: I know. Oh, yeah.
Gwenevere Abriel: But the other side is something else. Okay. If you decide to do these things.
Gwenevere Abriel: There's no clear decision. Number three is let go of the wish that's I think the one that's probably going to be the most
Saraniah Aston: Different
Gwenevere Abriel: It's a level wish for it to be different.
Gwenevere Abriel: And number four, when you're ready.
Saraniah Aston: Yeah, ready
Gwenevere Abriel: Develop healthy detachment.
Gwenevere Abriel: I didn't say abandon. I didn't say never speak to, again, nope. She's talking about is that list that you took a picture of it's about boundaries.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's about learning little phrases like, is this a me problem or you problem.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's about choosing curiosity over being right there's going to be little phrases that you may decide to own and live because they're more than just a catchy little annoying phrase that you might hear me repeat. They're very, they're like, literally.
Gwenevere Abriel: They're the tools of defiance where you will not budge from your truth and you don't have to fight for it anymore though. That's the difference. It's no it's real. I know exactly how I feeling. I know exactly what yesterday was
Gwenevere Abriel: Her
Night.
Gwenevere Abriel: And so then okay now I'm back in a relaxed body.
Gwenevere Abriel: She's never going to see it your way. And if she does.
Gwenevere Abriel: Well, guess what tomorrow. She's gonna pull that rug out from under you and you're going to be left with the same you were starting to rely on that shared reality and then tomorrow, it'll be something else.
Gwenevere Abriel: So if you have the position of radical acceptance except exactly what it is. If this is happening. Look there she's doing it again just doing it again. She's doing it again, but it has more and more distance from you and you can say
Gwenevere Abriel: I know what that is.
Gwenevere Abriel: And it will never change. I see it, it's real, it's not me.
Gwenevere Abriel: It's not me.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm fine. I'm saying
Gwenevere Abriel: My trying to question, make me question myself and I won't
Saraniah Aston: I'm just unless you want to change. Right.
Gwenevere Abriel: So obviously, that is a completely. That's it. That is, notice how I'm not doing anything about her. I can't change anything about her if she decides
Gwenevere Abriel: To do some self growth then fantastic, but guess what we do, we jump in. No, we don't jump in. We dip our toe slowly, we see if this individual can earn trust again and trust takes time.
Mm hmm.
Gwenevere Abriel: Will they will they do what they say this week, will that be sustainable for a month.
Gwenevere Abriel: Nine out of 10 times
Gwenevere Abriel: Look at that. I'm starting to see a pattern. I'm going to share a little bit more vulnerability with this person, much like what you and I were talking about with the dating thing. It's the same thing with mom and start there. She's the big one. Anyway, right. I wonder
Gwenevere Abriel: You know what, I will. I've watched her this last month, and she seems to be she's saying and doing the. I'm sorry.
Gwenevere Abriel: Maybe I will tell her a little story a personal story and see how she handles it, see if she is careful with it or she goes and gossips and tells other people well okay she's not ready.
Saraniah Aston: Right. It's funny yesterday she was like, Mia. Can we start over today.
Saraniah Aston: First, I was like oh my gosh she had her mind, we start over. There is a starting over, like
Saraniah Aston: Guess mom. Today we'll start over.
Gwenevere Abriel: Right, yeah. In a regular healthy relationship. I wish that was true. I wish what she was saying was
Gwenevere Abriel: Yes. And let me each each little stone each little breath. Let me put them down for you.
Gwenevere Abriel: I'm sorry I tried to make you crazy when I denied that you were doing this, I'm trying, I'm sorry I got in between you two. And I said you were bad, and he was good. I wish she was laying the foundation with her genuine ownership and accountability.
Gwenevere Abriel: But the I want to start over. Is that because she doesn't want to own anything and talk about what happened.
Saraniah Aston: I think it's 75% of that. Yes.
Gwenevere Abriel: What's the other person.
Saraniah Aston: The other percent is her genuine
Saraniah Aston: genuinely trying in her own
Saraniah Aston: kind of way.
Gwenevere Abriel: Okay, so
Gwenevere Abriel: You do get a sense that she cares about you. She may not know how to show it.
Gwenevere Abriel: But you do see that she
Saraniah Aston: Chill. Yeah, I believe that she cares about me, it's just
Saraniah Aston: Messed up it's wrong. This all backwards, not the right way to care about somebody she loves me. Yeah, okay.
Saraniah Aston: She loves her daughter, but
Saraniah Aston: I don't know. She likes me very much.
Saraniah Aston: She'll always love me, I think.
Saraniah Aston: As her daughter, the child that she gave birth to, you know, the little girl I was
Gwenevere Abriel: So what if you. Let's start with number one on this member. It's very, it's very much like I don't have a lot of time. I just check the time. But let's take that piece you started with. Today, which was about. I need to control my anger.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then I was like, Oh, how do we channel it harness it. But what if what you're doing is doing this.
Gwenevere Abriel: You picture this list defiant right hands on the hip. So I think of, I think, of a sassy little girl right
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah. Oh, and I know I want those, those are the shoes. I want to tell me I like something else. This is what I like. Like I picture my hands on my hips.
Saraniah Aston: Mm hmm.
Gwenevere Abriel: Yeah, so I picture that and I'm just like,
Gwenevere Abriel: I can be on the phone. I could be talking with her and I just make the pose. Just stand there and I picture the words that you look at them, they're look at it.
Remained
Gwenevere Abriel: If I remain define which means I have nothing to defend have nothing to argue
Gwenevere Abriel: We just take it.
Gwenevere Abriel: I will not explain myself.
Gwenevere Abriel: I won't give you details so that we can argue not gonna say anything, you just stay quiet your hand sort of on your gifts or whatever feels right and you just because it's going to be brand new.
Um,
Gwenevere Abriel: If you can just breathe last defiance look like, or I don't have to argue anything I accept what is she's kind of switching from what was yesterday. And now she's okay it's happening. I will not join her there. I will not
Gwenevere Abriel: I have my reality. I'm still in the one that we talked about yesterday. We're starting over. I'm still in that space on this date here define them I'd be like, Hmm, I want to stay happy I'm having a good day.
Gwenevere Abriel: Exactly gonna stay here.
Gwenevere Abriel: And then you watch her in her various antics of different things. She's doing you just watch. There's nothing to change. There's nothing to do you have your reality, it's right here right in these tips.
Gwenevere Abriel: I will not be budged.
Gwenevere Abriel: Just that
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's see what happens with just fat staying quiet.
Gwenevere Abriel: So that anger can just begin. I will not move from my position. I know what I know what I know. I'm going to say it just see if you can keep it just challenging audience settling in.
Gwenevere Abriel: I know what I know.
Saraniah Aston: Yeah. Awesome. These are awesome. This is awesome. What is that woman's name by the way.
Gwenevere Abriel: I can send this to some folks on but you could certainly google it immediately. It's Arielle A R IE LL and
Gwenevere Abriel: lovey L McClary he like Edward fee like Victor he like Edward
Saraniah Aston: Area. Okay. Fabulous. Yeah. She was right on the money.
Saraniah Aston: With me
Gwenevere Abriel: You're welcome. And it's how to deal with gaslighting and then a vertical. I don't know how to get that vertical line in there. Oh, it's the top where the backslash and then her name. So once you type in how to deal with gaslighting I bet you'll see her.
Saraniah Aston: Yes, so
Saraniah Aston: Do I do used to. So, which are really helpful. By the way down to the
Gwenevere Abriel: Us. So let's
Gwenevere Abriel: Let's talk about our next appointment.
Gwenevere Abriel: Looking next week, I have
Gwenevere Abriel: We can meet at one if that still works for you actually like 110
Saraniah Aston: Might be good. Yeah. That's actually really a really good time for
Me.
Saraniah Aston: Right now, so the date be that will be
Gwenevere Abriel: April 21
Saraniah Aston: Time.
Saraniah Aston: As
Gwenevere Abriel: hazing a
Room.
Saraniah Aston: Got one.
You got it.
Gwenevere Abriel: And I
Gwenevere Abriel: sent a message should I send a message. Yeah. Oh, yes. He said, Yes, Dr. Solomon wrote back at 114 yes
Saraniah Aston: Okay.
Gwenevere Abriel: Not only in your pharmacy.
Saraniah Aston: Okay, thank you for doing that. All right.
Gwenevere Abriel: Absolutely. All right, okay, with your hands on your hips.
Saraniah Aston: Yes, hands on my hips.
Gwenevere Abriel: All right, we'll talk soon.
Saraniah Aston: Bye. Bye. Okay, bye.